---
id: logging
title: Logging
sidebar_label: Logging
---

## Overview

Loom has built-in configurable logging. The user can configure the log level and
the log destination.

## Loom SDK Logging

### Configuring the log level

The Loom SDK provides two types of logs:

- blockchain logs (blockchain transactions and consensus events).
- Loom SDK logs (generated by the SDK itself, i.e emitted events).

As an example, add the following to your `loom.yaml` to set logging levels:

```yaml
LoomLogLevel: debug # sets the log level for events emitted from the loom SDK
BlockchainLogLevel: error # sets the log level for the blockchain logs.
```

> Defaults for the `LoomLogLevel` and `BlockchainLogLevel` are `info` and `error` respectively.

### Configuring the log destination

Currently, a file target is supported for the loom logs:

```yaml
LogDestination: "file://loom.log" # loom.log is also the default target.
```

To log to stderr, specify the destination as `file://-`

## Contract logging

Configurations like log level and destination are separate for contracts. These
are set using environment variables.

Example: `CONTRACT_LOG_LEVEL=debug CONTRACT_LOG_DESTINATION="file://-" $LOOM_EXE run`

This will set the contract log level to `debug` and the destination to stderr.

The default for log level and destination are `info` and `file://contract.log` respectively.

### Logging from the contract

The contract context has a pre-configured logger that can be used for structured logging. Let's look at an example:

```go
ctx.Logger().Info("Created account", "owner", owner, "address", addr)
```

will generate a log line like:

```text
ts=2018-05-13T02:06:49.817229589Z module=loom level=info _msg="Created account" owner=godbole4 address="\ufffd8\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd$Y+H\ufffd\u0012\u000c]\u001a\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd"
```

Available methods on the context logger are `Error`, `Warn`, `Info`, and `Debug`.
