* * *

id: logging title: 로깅 sidebar_label: 로깅

* * *

## 개요

Loom 설정가능한 로깅을 내장하고 있습니다. 사용자는 로그 레벨과 로그 목적지를 설정할 수 있습니다.

## Loom SDK 로깅

### 로그 레벨 설정하기

There are two types of logs in the loom sdk. The first is the logs of the blockchain transactions and the consensus events. The second is logs generated by the loom sdk, things like emitted events.

Set the following in your `loom.yaml` to set logging levels.

    LoomLogLevel: debug # sets log level for events emitted from the loom sdk
    BlockchainLogLevel: error # sets log level for the blockchain logs.
    

Defaults for the `LoomLogLevel` and `BlockchainLogLevel` are `info` and `error` respectively.

### Configuring the log destination

Currently a file target is supported for the loom logs.

    LogDestination: "file://loom.log" # loom.log is also the default target.
    

To log to stderr, specify the destination as `file://-`

## 컨트랙트 로깅

Configurations like log level and destination are seperate for contracts. These are set using environment variables. Example: `CONTRACT_LOG_LEVEL=debug CONTRACT_LOG_DESTINATION="file://-" $LOOM_EXE run`

This will set the contract log level to `debug` and the destination to stderr. The default for log level and destination are `info` and `file://contract.log` respectively.

### Logging from the contract

The contract context has a pre-configured logger that can be used for structured logging. For example

    ctx.Logger().Info("Created account", "owner", owner, "address", addr)
    

will generate a log line like

    ts=2018-05-13T02:06:49.817229589Z module=loom level=info _msg="Created account" owner=godbole4 address="\ufffd8\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd$Y+H\ufffd\u0012\u000c]\u001a\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd\ufffd"
    

Available methods on the context logger are `Error`, `Warn`, `Info`, and `Debug`